<!-- MHonArc v2.4.8 -->
<!--X-Subject: SUO: RE: RE: Process for accepting "working papers" / "expert contributions" &#45;&#45; RE: RE: Violation of process -->
<!--X-From-R13: "Irfg, [nggurj [D EEW&#45;UDSO&#45;GY" <[nggurj.D.IrfgNvf.furyy.pbz> -->
<!--X-Date: Tue, 27 Mar 2001 12:05:48 &#45;0500 (EST) -->
<!--X-Message-Id: DE057CA9F46ED2118C4900805F85E427077C4A87@LONSC0S0038 -->
<!--X-Content-Type: text/plain -->
<!--X-Head-End-->

<!-- /groups/802/3/efm/public/email/msg01914.html -->
<!-- /groups/???? ?SUO?                              -->

<HTML>

<HEAD>
<TITLE>SUO: RE: RE: Process for accepting &quot;working papers&quot; / &quot;expert contributi</TITLE>
<LINK REV="made" HREF="mailto:Matthew.R.West@is.shell.com">
</HEAD>

<BODY BGCOLOR="#FFFFFF">

<!--X-Body-Begin-->
<!--X-User-Header-->
<!--X-User-Header-End-->
<!--X-TopPNI-->

<CENTER>

<TABLE CELLPADDING=3 CELLSPACING=0 BORDER=1 WIDTH="100%">
<TBODY>
<TR ALIGN="CENTER">
<TH COLSPAN=3><STRONG>Thread Links</STRONG></TH>
<TH COLSPAN=3><STRONG>Date Links</STRONG></TH>
</TR>
<TR ALIGN="CENTER">
<TD><A HREF="msg01924.html">Thread Prev</A>
</TD>
<TD><A HREF="msg01944.html">Thread Next</A>
</TD>
<TD><A HREF="thrd51.html#01914">Thread Index</A></Td>
<TD><A HREF="msg01915.html">Date Prev</A></TD>
<TD><A HREF="msg01913.html">Date Next</A>
</TD>
<TD><A HREF="mail52.html#01914">Date Index</A></TD>
</TR>
</TBODY>
</TABLE>
</CENTER>


<!--X-TopPNI-End-->
<!--X-MsgBody-->
<!--X-Subject-Header-Begin-->
<h1>SUO: RE: RE: Process for accepting &quot;working papers&quot; / &quot;expert contributions&quot; -- RE: RE: Violation of process</h1>
<hr>
<!--X-Subject-Header-End-->
<!--X-Head-of-Message-->
<UL>
<LI><em>To</em>: &quot;'Standard-Upper-Ontology '&quot; &lt;<A HREF="mailto:standard-upper-ontology@ieee.org">standard-upper-ontology@ieee.org</A>&gt;</LI>
<LI><em>Subject</em>: SUO: RE: RE: Process for accepting &quot;working papers&quot; / &quot;expert contributions&quot; -- RE: RE: Violation of process</LI>
<LI><em>From</em>: &quot;West, Matthew MR SSI-GREA-UK&quot; &lt;<A HREF="mailto:Matthew.R.West@is.shell.com">Matthew.R.West@is.shell.com</A>&gt;</LI>
<LI><em>Date</em>: Tue, 27 Mar 2001 18:37:07 +0200</LI>
<LI><em>Reply-To</em>: &quot;West, Matthew MR SSI-GREA-UK&quot; &lt;<A HREF="mailto:Matthew.R.West@is.shell.com">Matthew.R.West@is.shell.com</A>&gt;</LI>
<LI><em>Sender</em>: <A HREF="mailto:owner-standard-upper-ontology@ieee.org">owner-standard-upper-ontology@ieee.org</A></LI>
</UL>
<!--X-Head-of-Message-End-->
<!--X-Head-Body-Sep-Begin-->
<hr>
<!--X-Head-Body-Sep-End-->
<!--X-Body-of-Message-->
<PRE>

Dear Phil,

&gt; 
&gt; Separately both Matthew West and Graham Horn have presented arguments
&gt; against having any formal working documents at this time, even if no
&gt; documents are designated as pre-eminent. Graham has also suggested that
&gt; voting for working documents at this time would be too 
&gt; time-consuming and/or
&gt; divisive.

MW: I would rather say that a simpler way of getting to Working Documents
is what is proposed, i.e. that any voting member may post a document for
consideration as a working document, with rather less formality than is
currently the case, and we let evolution and voting with feet do the rest
rather than formal and premature votes.
&gt; 
&gt; So it seems we have a tangle of issues, about which there is some
&gt; substantial concern and potential disagreement among multiple voting
&gt; members. This tangle of issues needs to be separated and 
&gt; resolved. One way
&gt; to resolve these issues might be to have a vote in which the 
&gt; ballot consists
&gt; of the following questions, to determine how best to proceed:
&gt; 
&gt; 1) Should we have any formally designated working documents 
&gt; at all at this
&gt; point? (yes, no, abstain)

MW: Yes, but using a different process.
&gt; 
&gt; 2) Should any documents be designated as pre-eminent over 
&gt; others at this
&gt; point? (yes, no, abstain)

MW: No, unless someone has a crystal ball.
&gt; 
&gt; 3) If we have working documents, what procedure should be followed to
&gt; designate something as a working document (Choose one):
&gt; 
&gt; A) A vote requiring a plurality of voting members in favor of 
&gt; the document?
&gt; 
&gt; B) Any voting member may submit a document and it is automatically
&gt; recognized as a working document?

MW: Yes.
&gt; 
&gt; C) TBD.
&gt; 
&gt; I would like to open the question of whether we should have 
&gt; such a vote for
&gt; discussion by all concerned. Maybe this is something that is 
&gt; already clearly
&gt; established in the procedures for IEEE working groups? If 
&gt; not, we may need
&gt; to establish it for SUO...

MW: I think this is what Robert Spillers is taking the lead on.
(by the way, thanks Robert).
&gt; 
&gt; Phil Jackson
&gt; -------------------------------------------------------------------
&gt; "Tell us how the laws of nature came about, and we may 
&gt; distinguish in some
&gt; measure between laws that might and laws that could not have 
&gt; resulted from
&gt; such a process of development." - Peirce, CP3:408.
&gt; -------------------------------------------------------------------
&gt; Standard Disclaimers. www.philjackson.prohosting.com
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; &gt; -----Original Message-----
&gt; &gt; From: Philip Jackson [<A  HREF="mailto:phil.jackson@computer.org">mailto:phil.jackson@computer.org</A>]
&gt; &gt; Sent: Tuesday, March 27, 2001 8:22 AM
&gt; &gt; To: 'Standard-Upper-Ontology '
&gt; &gt; Subject: Process for accepting "working papers" / "expert 
&gt; contributions"
&gt; &gt; -- RE: RE: Violation of process
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; It seems to me that the proposal below, with the amendments
&gt; &gt; suggested by John Sowa, has several advantages:
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; 1) It goes on the record making it clear that SUO is open to
&gt; &gt; actively considering multiple "working documents" / "expert
&gt; &gt; contributions", etc., at this time. As Chris Partridge noted in
&gt; &gt; his recent post, this is something that Jim Schoening had
&gt; &gt; previously written, but I think it is good to get this issue
&gt; &gt; clearly resolved and established, once and for all.
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; 2) It also provides a way in which a working document can have
&gt; &gt; some degree of formal acknowledgement and status as being under
&gt; &gt; consideration by SUO, without having precedence over other
&gt; &gt; working documents. This is different from what it seemed that Bob
&gt; &gt; Spillers had previously requested, that there be no "formality"
&gt; &gt; whatsoever attached to the status of something being a working
&gt; &gt; document. Yet some formality without preeminence may be 
&gt; acceptable to all.
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; The only potential disadvantages and/or issues I can see are the
&gt; &gt; following:
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; A) Does SUO need some kind of "filter" to ensure that not just
&gt; &gt; any document can be submitted and automatically accepted as a
&gt; &gt; working document / expert contribution, and thereby gain the
&gt; &gt; patina of preliminary status with IEEE SUO? For example, suppose
&gt; &gt; there is a "crank" who happens to be reading the postings of this
&gt; &gt; group, who would like to submit a document that virtually
&gt; &gt; everyone else would say is outlandish and not worth considering
&gt; &gt; as a working paper? Even under the additional terms proposed
&gt; &gt; below, if Mr. Crank waits six months and becomes a voting member,
&gt; &gt; then he can submit a document and tell the world it has been
&gt; &gt; accepted as a working document by IEEE. One remedy for this
&gt; &gt; (hopefully unlikely)potential problem is to require that anything
&gt; &gt; submitted for status as a working document must receive at least
&gt; &gt; a plurality of votes in favor of acceptance, by voting 
&gt; members of SUO.
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; B) Separately, Matthew West has raised the question whether
&gt; &gt; anything needs to be, or merits being, a formal working document
&gt; &gt; at this point. It seems to me that if the Merged Ontology has the
&gt; &gt; status of a Working Document, yet the majority of the group
&gt; &gt; either abstained or voted against it, then this indicates that
&gt; &gt; the Merged Ontology has sufficient limitations that it would be a
&gt; &gt; good idea at this point to try to get some other contenders
&gt; &gt; recognized as having at least the same, preliminary status, e.g.
&gt; &gt; EPISTLE, OpenCyc, etc. In saying this I do not prejudge the
&gt; &gt; Merged Ontology's chances of eventually being selected as the
&gt; &gt; final SUO standard.
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; C) We may have multiple working documents, but their relation to
&gt; &gt; the final SUO standard is completely open, as it should be at
&gt; &gt; this point. The final standard may be one of these working
&gt; &gt; documents, chosen as best by the group. Or it may be a "merger"
&gt; &gt; of multiple working documents. Or conceivably it might be a
&gt; &gt; "metaontology" describing other ontologies. Or it might be some
&gt; &gt; framework for translating between ontologies, or some kind of
&gt; &gt; "library of ontologies" or "assembly of ontologies", with
&gt; &gt; references to member ontologies, etc. Whatever the final standard
&gt; &gt; is, it seems that at some point it would have to become a working
&gt; &gt; document itself.
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; Phil Jackson
&gt; &gt; -------------------------------------------------------------------
&gt; &gt; "Thus, space, as far as we can see, has three dimensions; but are
&gt; &gt; we quite sure that the corpuscles into which atoms are now minced
&gt; &gt; have not room enough to wiggle a little in a fourth? Is physical
&gt; &gt; space hyperbolic, that is, infinite and limited, or is it
&gt; &gt; elliptic, that is, finite and unlimited? Only the exactest
&gt; &gt; measurements upon the stars can decide. Yet even with them the
&gt; &gt; question cannot be answered without recourse to philosophy." -
&gt; &gt; Peirce, CP2:249.
&gt; &gt; -------------------------------------------------------------------
&gt; &gt; Standard Disclaimers. www.philjackson.prohosting.com
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; &gt; -----Original Message-----
&gt; &gt; &gt; From: owner-standard-upper-ontology@ieee.org
&gt; &gt; &gt; [<A  HREF="mailto:owner-standard-upper-ontology@ieee.org]On">mailto:owner-standard-upper-ontology@ieee.org]On</A> Behalf 
&gt; Of Horn, Graham
&gt; &gt; &gt; Sent: Monday, March 26, 2001 11:12 PM
&gt; &gt; &gt; To: 'sowa@bestweb.net'; Robert Grayson Spillers; Jon Awbrey; Chris
&gt; &gt; &gt; Partridge; 'Standard-Upper-Ontology '
&gt; &gt; &gt; Subject: SUO: RE: Violation of process
&gt; &gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; &gt; Bob,
&gt; &gt; &gt; 	.	Having looked at the website, and seem the pre-eminent
&gt; &gt; &gt; status given a "Document being worked on by this Working Group",
&gt; &gt; &gt; I see valid
&gt; &gt; &gt; reasons for your concern.
&gt; &gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; &gt; 	.	Naturally, many of us want to encourage Ian 
&gt; Niles, Matthew
&gt; &gt; &gt; West and Robert Kent, as well as the prospect of somehow
&gt; &gt; including the Cyc
&gt; &gt; &gt; ontology. However, that doesn't mean any one of them will
&gt; &gt; necessarily turn
&gt; &gt; &gt; out to be either the core, or even necessarily part, of the
&gt; &gt; final product
&gt; &gt; &gt; that turns out to have the robust structure we need. I suggest,
&gt; &gt; &gt; for the best
&gt; &gt; &gt; product to result from this project, we have to maximise the
&gt; &gt; &gt; opportunity for
&gt; &gt; &gt; highest quality, robust and generic ontology to emerge. This
&gt; &gt; requires due
&gt; &gt; &gt; and balanced consideration be given all candidates, and so
&gt; &gt; pre-eminence is
&gt; &gt; &gt; not appropriate.
&gt; &gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; &gt; 	.	I have always wondered why there is a need to have a
&gt; &gt; &gt; pre-eminent document at such an early stage. NONE of us 
&gt; can possibly
&gt; &gt; &gt; adjudicate, at this stage, which candidate structure will finish
&gt; &gt; &gt; up with the
&gt; &gt; &gt; necessary soundness to constitute an appropriate final product.
&gt; &gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; &gt; 	.	As a result I now support your move to remove the formal
&gt; &gt; &gt; pre-eminent status of any particular product(s).
&gt; &gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; &gt; 	.	Furthermore, I think it is generally agreed 
&gt; that the ballot
&gt; &gt; &gt; caused a lot of unnecessary acrimony, and was hardly 
&gt; decisive in its
&gt; &gt; &gt; outcome. I think many feel it shouldn't have occurred at such an
&gt; &gt; &gt; early stage
&gt; &gt; &gt; (even Jim acknowledged that). Up to now I was happy to live with
&gt; &gt; &gt; it, but now
&gt; &gt; &gt; I see the risk of the current outcome swaying the long-term
&gt; &gt; prospects for
&gt; &gt; &gt; the project settling on the best final product.
&gt; &gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; &gt; 	.	For these reasons, I support your call for a ballot to
&gt; &gt; &gt; resolve the contentious situation that evidently exists.
&gt; &gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; &gt; 	.	Personally, I would be happy that such a ballot 
&gt; require a
&gt; &gt; &gt; 2/3rds majority, since I feel that demonstrates an adequately
&gt; &gt; substantial
&gt; &gt; &gt; direction of opinion.
&gt; &gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; &gt; 	.	I also support the sort of careful additional 
&gt; considerations
&gt; &gt; &gt; John has suggested for the motion below. I feel this is an
&gt; &gt; opportunity to
&gt; &gt; &gt; set up a sound ontology candidacy structure, and such
&gt; &gt; additional controls
&gt; &gt; &gt; can assist that aim.
&gt; &gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; &gt; Cheers   				Graham Horn
&gt; &gt; &gt; National Data Standards Unit
&gt; &gt; &gt; Australian Institute of Health and Welfare
&gt; &gt; &gt; ================================================
&gt; &gt; &gt; Phone:      	+61.2.6244.1094
&gt; &gt; &gt; Fax:          	+61.2.6244.1199
&gt; &gt; &gt; E­mail:    	Graham.Horn@aihw.gov.au 
&lt;<A  HREF="mailto:graham.horn@aihw.gov.au">mailto:graham.horn@aihw.gov.au</A>&gt;
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; -----Original Message-----
&gt; &gt; From:	John F. Sowa [<A  HREF="mailto:sowa@bestweb.net">mailto:sowa@bestweb.net</A>]
&gt; &gt; Sent:	Tuesday, March 27, 2001 12:24 PM
&gt; &gt; To:	Robert Grayson Spillers; John F. Sowa; Jon Awbrey; Chris Partridge;
&gt; &gt; Horn, Graham; 'Standard-Upper-Ontology '
&gt; &gt; Subject:	Re: Violation of process
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; Bob,
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; I like that proposal, and I would vote for it.  But I would suggest two
&gt; &gt; clarifications:  (1) decide on some name for the submissions, such as
&gt; &gt; "working paper" or "expert contribution"; and (2) clarify the status of
&gt; &gt; "member".  Right now, there are three categories of people who have been
&gt; &gt; participating:
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt;  1. People who have attained voting rights in the SUO process.
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt;  2. Those who are on the waiting list for voting rights.
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt;  3. Those who have been occasionally reading the messages,
&gt; &gt;     occasionally submitting a comment, but not yet sure what
&gt; &gt;     level of participation they would like to commit to.
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; I would suggest that:
&gt; &gt; *	Anyone in group #1 should be able to submit such a document and/or
&gt; &gt; serve as the technical editor.
&gt; &gt; *	Anyone in group #2 could be the technical editor of such a document,
&gt; &gt; but would have to get someone in group #1 to submit it.
&gt; &gt; *	Anyone in group #3 would have to apply for #2 status and get someone
&gt; &gt; in #1 to submit it.
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; John Sowa
&gt; &gt; _______________________________________________________________
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; &gt;Motion:  Request for adoption by general (unanimous) consent.
&gt; &gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; &gt;Resolved: Any member of the IEEE SUO Working Group may post a document
&gt; &gt; &gt;to the SUO web page as a "Document being worked on by this Working
&gt; &gt; &gt;Group."  The member who posts a document is presumptively the technical
&gt; &gt; &gt;editor of the document and by posting agrees to perform this role or
&gt; &gt; &gt;alternatively name another member who agrees to perform the role of
&gt; &gt; &gt;technical editor.  No vote will be required to post a document or name
&gt; &gt; &gt;an editor.
&gt; &gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; &gt;The statement  "All documents posted are deemed to have equal
&gt; status and
&gt; &gt; &gt;no document has any preferred position over any other document." will
&gt; &gt; &gt;precede the list of documents.



Regards  
      Matthew
===============================================================
Matthew West                    <A  HREF="http://www.matthew-west.org.uk/">http://www.matthew-west.org.uk/</A>

Principal Consultant                   Shell Visiting Professor
Operations &amp; Asset Management            The Keyworth Institute
Shell Services International            The University of Leeds
<A  HREF="http://www.shellservices.com/">http://www.shellservices.com/</A>  <A  HREF="http://www.keyworth.leeds.ac.uk/">http://www.keyworth.leeds.ac.uk/</A>

H3229, Shell Centre, London, SE1 7NA, UK.
Tel: +44 207 934 4490 Fax: 7929 Mobile: +44 7796 336538
=============================================================== 

</PRE>

<!--X-Body-of-Message-End-->
<!--X-MsgBody-End-->
<!--X-Follow-Ups-->
<hr>
<!--X-Follow-Ups-End-->
<!--X-References-->
<!--X-References-End-->
<!--X-BotPNI-->
<ul>
<LI>Prev by Date:
<STRONG><A HREF="msg01915.html">SUO: RE: Process for accepting &quot;working papers&quot; / &quot;expert contributions&quot; -- RE: RE: Violation of process</A></STRONG>
</LI>
<LI>Next by Date:
<STRONG><A HREF="msg01913.html">SUO: RE: More than enough objections to change course</A></STRONG>
</LI>
<li>Prev by thread:
<strong><a href="msg01924.html">SUO: RE: RE: Process for accepting &quot;working papers&quot; / &quot;expert contributions&quot; -- RE: RE: Violation of process</a></strong>
</li>
<li>Next by thread:
<strong><a href="msg01944.html">SUO: RE: RE: Process for accepting &quot;working papers&quot; / &quot;expert contributions&quot; -- RE: RE: Violation of process</a></strong>
</li>
<li>Index(es):
<ul>
<li><a href="mail52.html#01914"><strong>Date</strong></a></li>
<li><a href="thrd51.html#01914"><strong>Thread</strong></a></li>
</ul>
</li>
</ul>

<!--X-BotPNI-End-->
<!--X-User-Footer-->
<!--X-User-Footer-End-->
</body>
</html>
