<!-- MHonArc v2.4.8 -->
<!--X-Subject: SUO: RE: RE: Process for accepting "working papers" / "expert contributions" &#45;&#45; RE: RE: Violation of process -->
<!--X-From-R13: "Buvyvc Xnpxfba" <cuvy.wnpxfbaNpbzchgre.bet> -->
<!--X-Date: Tue, 27 Mar 2001 20:11:13 &#45;0500 (EST) -->
<!--X-Message-Id: HEEOIOAMEIDGAOIGLDPOAEEDCGAA.phil.jackson@computer.org -->
<!--X-Content-Type: text/plain -->
<!--X-Reference: DE057CA9F46ED2118C4900805F85E427077C4A85@LONSC0S0038 -->
<!--X-Head-End-->

<!-- /groups/802/3/efm/public/email/msg01924.html -->
<!-- /groups/???? ?SUO?                              -->

<HTML>

<HEAD>
<TITLE>SUO: RE: RE: Process for accepting &quot;working papers&quot; / &quot;expert contributi</TITLE>
<LINK REV="made" HREF="mailto:phil.jackson@computer.org">
</HEAD>

<BODY BGCOLOR="#FFFFFF">

<!--X-Body-Begin-->
<!--X-User-Header-->
<!--X-User-Header-End-->
<!--X-TopPNI-->

<CENTER>

<TABLE CELLPADDING=3 CELLSPACING=0 BORDER=1 WIDTH="100%">
<TBODY>
<TR ALIGN="CENTER">
<TH COLSPAN=3><STRONG>Thread Links</STRONG></TH>
<TH COLSPAN=3><STRONG>Date Links</STRONG></TH>
</TR>
<TR ALIGN="CENTER">
<TD><A HREF="msg01915.html">Thread Prev</A>
</TD>
<TD><A HREF="msg01914.html">Thread Next</A>
</TD>
<TD><A HREF="thrd51.html#01924">Thread Index</A></Td>
<TD><A HREF="msg01925.html">Date Prev</A></TD>
<TD><A HREF="msg01923.html">Date Next</A>
</TD>
<TD><A HREF="mail52.html#01924">Date Index</A></TD>
</TR>
</TBODY>
</TABLE>
</CENTER>


<!--X-TopPNI-End-->
<!--X-MsgBody-->
<!--X-Subject-Header-Begin-->
<h1>SUO: RE: RE: Process for accepting &quot;working papers&quot; / &quot;expert contributions&quot; -- RE: RE: Violation of process</h1>
<hr>
<!--X-Subject-Header-End-->
<!--X-Head-of-Message-->
<UL>
<LI><em>To</em>: &quot;West, Matthew MR SSI-GREA-UK&quot; &lt;<A HREF="mailto:Matthew.R.West@is.shell.com">Matthew.R.West@is.shell.com</A>&gt;,       &quot;John F. Sowa&quot; &lt;<A HREF="mailto:sowa@bestweb.net">sowa@bestweb.net</A>&gt;,       &quot;'Standard-Upper-Ontology '&quot; &lt;<A HREF="mailto:standard-upper-ontology@ieee.org">standard-upper-ontology@ieee.org</A>&gt;</LI>
<LI><em>Subject</em>: SUO: RE: RE: Process for accepting &quot;working papers&quot; / &quot;expert contributions&quot; -- RE: RE: Violation of process</LI>
<LI><em>From</em>: &quot;Philip Jackson&quot; &lt;<A HREF="mailto:phil.jackson@computer.org">phil.jackson@computer.org</A>&gt;</LI>
<LI><em>Date</em>: Tue, 27 Mar 2001 19:50:59 -0500</LI>
<LI><em>Importance</em>: Normal</LI>
<LI><em>In-Reply-To</em>: &lt;<A HREF="msg01915.html">DE057CA9F46ED2118C4900805F85E427077C4A85@LONSC0S0038</A>&gt;</LI>
<LI><em>Reply-To</em>: &quot;Philip Jackson&quot; &lt;<A HREF="mailto:phil.jackson@computer.org">phil.jackson@computer.org</A>&gt;</LI>
<LI><em>Sender</em>: <A HREF="mailto:owner-standard-upper-ontology@ieee.org">owner-standard-upper-ontology@ieee.org</A></LI>
</UL>
<!--X-Head-of-Message-End-->
<!--X-Head-Body-Sep-Begin-->
<hr>
<!--X-Head-Body-Sep-End-->
<!--X-Body-of-Message-->
<PRE>

Dear Matthew and John,

Thanks very much for your replies, which are both along similar lines. I
agree that the scenario I described appears unlikely and that the remedies
you have both suggested should be adequate -- I mentioned this scenario out
of a sense of completeness, trying to see both sides of the question, and
see what disadvantages and issues there might be, if any.

So, I have no objection to going with the informal, no-vote-required
approach to consideration of working documents.

Regards,

Phil Jackson
-------------------------------------------------------------------
"We are brought, then, to this: conformity to law exists only within a
limited range of events and even there is not perfect, for an element of
pure spontaneity or lawless originality mingles, or at least must be
supposed to mingle, with law everywhere. Moreover, conformity with law is a
fact requiring to be explained; and since law in general cannot be explained
by any law in particular, the explanation must consist in showing how law is
developed out of pure chance, irregularity, and indeterminacy." - Peirce,
CP3:407.
-------------------------------------------------------------------
Standard Disclaimers. www.philjackson.prohosting.com

&gt; -----Original Message-----
&gt; From: owner-standard-upper-ontology@ieee.org
&gt; [<A  HREF="mailto:owner-standard-upper-ontology@ieee.org]On">mailto:owner-standard-upper-ontology@ieee.org]On</A> Behalf Of West,
&gt; Matthew MR SSI-GREA-UK
&gt; Sent: Tuesday, March 27, 2001 11:37 AM
&gt; To: 'Standard-Upper-Ontology '
&gt; Subject: SUO: RE: Process for accepting "working papers" / "expert
&gt; contributions" -- RE: RE: Violation of process
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; Dear Phil,
&gt;
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; It seems to me that the proposal below, with the amendments
&gt; &gt; suggested by
&gt; &gt; John Sowa, has several advantages:
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; 1) It goes on the record making it clear that SUO is open to actively
&gt; &gt; considering multiple "working documents" / "expert
&gt; &gt; contributions", etc., at
&gt; &gt; this time. As Chris Partridge noted in his recent post, this
&gt; &gt; is something
&gt; &gt; that Jim Schoening had previously written, but I think it is
&gt; &gt; good to get
&gt; &gt; this issue clearly resolved and established, once and for all.
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; 2) It also provides a way in which a working document can
&gt; &gt; have some degree
&gt; &gt; of formal acknowledgement and status as being under
&gt; &gt; consideration by SUO,
&gt; &gt; without having precedence over other working documents. This
&gt; &gt; is different
&gt; &gt; from what it seemed that Bob Spillers had previously
&gt; &gt; requested, that there
&gt; &gt; be no "formality" whatsoever attached to the status of
&gt; &gt; something being a
&gt; &gt; working document. Yet some formality without preeminence may
&gt; &gt; be acceptable
&gt; &gt; to all.
&gt;
&gt; MW: If my amendments are accepted, teh formality is that some
&gt; voting member
&gt; (i.e. not just anyone) thinks that this document is worth consideration.
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; The only potential disadvantages and/or issues I can see are
&gt; &gt; the following:
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; A) Does SUO need some kind of "filter" to ensure that not
&gt; &gt; just any document
&gt; &gt; can be submitted and automatically accepted as a working
&gt; &gt; document / expert
&gt; &gt; contribution, and thereby gain the patina of preliminary
&gt; &gt; status with IEEE
&gt; &gt; SUO? For example, suppose there is a "crank" who happens to
&gt; &gt; be reading the
&gt; &gt; postings of this group, who would like to submit a document
&gt; &gt; that virtually
&gt; &gt; everyone else would say is outlandish and not worth
&gt; &gt; considering as a working
&gt; &gt; paper? Even under the additional terms proposed below, if Mr.
&gt; &gt; Crank waits
&gt; &gt; six months and becomes a voting member, then he can submit a
&gt; &gt; document and
&gt; &gt; tell the world it has been accepted as a working document by IEEE. One
&gt; &gt; remedy for this (hopefully unlikely)potential problem is to
&gt; &gt; require that
&gt; &gt; anything submitted for status as a working document must
&gt; &gt; receive at least a
&gt; &gt; plurality of votes in favor of acceptance, by voting members of SUO.
&gt;
&gt; MW: I have proposed above what I think is a sufficient condition.
&gt; The other control is the peer review that those things submitted
&gt; will be subject too. We will need to have an issue log for each document
&gt; that is available for all to see. At this stage I think that is enough.
&gt; I don't think it is worth not trusting the other members of the list.
&gt; The e-mail burden is sufficient to put off any who are not driven to try
&gt; to solve the problems we face here.
&gt;
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; B) Separately, Matthew West has raised the question whether
&gt; &gt; anything needs
&gt; &gt; to be, or merits being, a formal working document at this
&gt; &gt; point. It seems to
&gt; &gt; me that if the Merged Ontology has the status of a Working
&gt; &gt; Document, yet the
&gt; &gt; majority of the group either abstained or voted against it, then this
&gt; &gt; indicates that the Merged Ontology has sufficient limitations
&gt; &gt; that it would
&gt; &gt; be a good idea at this point to try to get some other
&gt; &gt; contenders recognized
&gt; &gt; as having at least the same, preliminary status, e.g.
&gt; &gt; EPISTLE, OpenCyc, etc.
&gt; &gt; In saying this I do not prejudge the Merged Ontology's
&gt; &gt; chances of eventually
&gt; &gt; being selected as the final SUO standard.
&gt;
&gt; MW: EPISTLE and CYC are mentioned as candidate material to be
&gt; incorporated into an ontology. I do plan to do some more as soon as
&gt; I have time. I would be much more inclined to submit something to
&gt; the process Robert I and others have suggested than the current one.
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; C) We may have multiple working documents, but their relation
&gt; &gt; to the final
&gt; &gt; SUO standard is completely open, as it should be at this
&gt; &gt; point. The final
&gt; &gt; standard may be one of these working documents, chosen as
&gt; &gt; best by the group.
&gt; &gt; Or it may be a "merger" of multiple working documents. Or
&gt; &gt; conceivably it
&gt; &gt; might be a "metaontology" describing other ontologies. Or it
&gt; &gt; might be some
&gt; &gt; framework for translating between ontologies, or some kind of
&gt; &gt; "library of
&gt; &gt; ontologies" or "assembly of ontologies", with references to member
&gt; &gt; ontologies, etc. Whatever the final standard is, it seems
&gt; &gt; that at some point
&gt; &gt; it would have to become a working document itself.
&gt;
&gt; MW: If we had a more open process, such as that proposed, I would
&gt; expect an evolution. There might be a number of start points, but
&gt; with encouragement these might merge at different times until there
&gt; were only a few that might be integrated by mapping under some very
&gt; high level concepts such as the class that Chris M has introduced in
&gt; his proposal (which certainly deserves to be considered as a
&gt; Working Document).
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; Phil Jackson
&gt; &gt; -------------------------------------------------------------------
&gt; &gt; "Thus, space, as far as we can see, has three dimensions; but
&gt; &gt; are we quite
&gt; &gt; sure that the corpuscles into which atoms are now minced have not room
&gt; &gt; enough to wiggle a little in a fourth? Is physical space
&gt; &gt; hyperbolic, that
&gt; &gt; is, infinite and limited, or is it elliptic, that is, finite
&gt; &gt; and unlimited?
&gt; &gt; Only the exactest measurements upon the stars can decide. Yet
&gt; &gt; even with them
&gt; &gt; the question cannot be answered without recourse to
&gt; &gt; philosophy." - Peirce,
&gt; &gt; CP2:249.
&gt; &gt; -------------------------------------------------------------------
&gt; &gt; Standard Disclaimers. www.philjackson.prohosting.com
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; &gt; -----Original Message-----
&gt; &gt; &gt; From: owner-standard-upper-ontology@ieee.org
&gt; &gt; &gt; [<A  HREF="mailto:owner-standard-upper-ontology@ieee.org]On">mailto:owner-standard-upper-ontology@ieee.org]On</A> Behalf Of
&gt; &gt; Horn, Graham
&gt; &gt; &gt; Sent: Monday, March 26, 2001 11:12 PM
&gt; &gt; &gt; To: 'sowa@bestweb.net'; Robert Grayson Spillers; Jon Awbrey; Chris
&gt; &gt; &gt; Partridge; 'Standard-Upper-Ontology '
&gt; &gt; &gt; Subject: SUO: RE: Violation of process
&gt; &gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; &gt; Bob,
&gt; &gt; &gt; 	.	Having looked at the website, and seem the pre-eminent
&gt; &gt; &gt; status given a "Document being worked on by this Working Group",
&gt; &gt; &gt; I see valid
&gt; &gt; &gt; reasons for your concern.
&gt; &gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; &gt; 	.	Naturally, many of us want to encourage Ian
&gt; &gt; Niles, Matthew
&gt; &gt; &gt; West and Robert Kent, as well as the prospect of somehow
&gt; &gt; including the Cyc
&gt; &gt; &gt; ontology. However, that doesn't mean any one of them will
&gt; &gt; necessarily turn
&gt; &gt; &gt; out to be either the core, or even necessarily part, of the
&gt; &gt; final product
&gt; &gt; &gt; that turns out to have the robust structure we need. I suggest,
&gt; &gt; &gt; for the best
&gt; &gt; &gt; product to result from this project, we have to maximise the
&gt; &gt; &gt; opportunity for
&gt; &gt; &gt; highest quality, robust and generic ontology to emerge.
&gt; &gt; This requires due
&gt; &gt; &gt; and balanced consideration be given all candidates, and so
&gt; &gt; pre-eminence is
&gt; &gt; &gt; not appropriate.
&gt; &gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; &gt; 	.	I have always wondered why there is a need to have a
&gt; &gt; &gt; pre-eminent document at such an early stage. NONE of us can possibly
&gt; &gt; &gt; adjudicate, at this stage, which candidate structure will finish
&gt; &gt; &gt; up with the
&gt; &gt; &gt; necessary soundness to constitute an appropriate final product.
&gt; &gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; &gt; 	.	As a result I now support your move to remove the formal
&gt; &gt; &gt; pre-eminent status of any particular product(s).
&gt; &gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; &gt; 	.	Furthermore, I think it is generally agreed
&gt; &gt; that the ballot
&gt; &gt; &gt; caused a lot of unnecessary acrimony, and was hardly decisive in its
&gt; &gt; &gt; outcome. I think many feel it shouldn't have occurred at such an
&gt; &gt; &gt; early stage
&gt; &gt; &gt; (even Jim acknowledged that). Up to now I was happy to live with
&gt; &gt; &gt; it, but now
&gt; &gt; &gt; I see the risk of the current outcome swaying the long-term
&gt; &gt; prospects for
&gt; &gt; &gt; the project settling on the best final product.
&gt; &gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; &gt; 	.	For these reasons, I support your call for a ballot to
&gt; &gt; &gt; resolve the contentious situation that evidently exists.
&gt; &gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; &gt; 	.	Personally, I would be happy that such a ballot
&gt; &gt; require a
&gt; &gt; &gt; 2/3rds majority, since I feel that demonstrates an
&gt; &gt; adequately substantial
&gt; &gt; &gt; direction of opinion.
&gt; &gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; &gt; 	.	I also support the sort of careful additional
&gt; &gt; considerations
&gt; &gt; &gt; John has suggested for the motion below. I feel this is an
&gt; &gt; opportunity to
&gt; &gt; &gt; set up a sound ontology candidacy structure, and such
&gt; &gt; additional controls
&gt; &gt; &gt; can assist that aim.
&gt; &gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; &gt; Cheers   				Graham Horn
&gt; &gt; &gt; National Data Standards Unit
&gt; &gt; &gt; Australian Institute of Health and Welfare
&gt; &gt; &gt; ================================================
&gt; &gt; &gt; Phone:      	+61.2.6244.1094
&gt; &gt; &gt; Fax:          	+61.2.6244.1199
&gt; &gt; &gt; E­mail:    	Graham.Horn@aihw.gov.au
&gt; &lt;<A  HREF="mailto:graham.horn@aihw.gov.au">mailto:graham.horn@aihw.gov.au</A>&gt;
&gt; &gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; &gt; -----Original Message-----
&gt; &gt; &gt; From:	John F. Sowa [<A  HREF="mailto:sowa@bestweb.net">mailto:sowa@bestweb.net</A>]
&gt; &gt; &gt; Sent:	Tuesday, March 27, 2001 12:24 PM
&gt; &gt; &gt; To:	Robert Grayson Spillers; John F. Sowa; Jon Awbrey;
&gt; &gt; Chris Partridge;
&gt; &gt; &gt; Horn, Graham; 'Standard-Upper-Ontology '
&gt; &gt; &gt; Subject:	Re: Violation of process
&gt; &gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; &gt; Bob,
&gt; &gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; &gt; I like that proposal, and I would vote for it.  But I would
&gt; &gt; suggest two
&gt; &gt; &gt; clarifications:  (1) decide on some name for the
&gt; &gt; submissions, such as
&gt; &gt; &gt; "working paper" or "expert contribution"; and (2) clarify
&gt; &gt; the status of
&gt; &gt; &gt; "member".  Right now, there are three categories of people
&gt; &gt; who have been
&gt; &gt; &gt; participating:
&gt; &gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; &gt;  1. People who have attained voting rights in the SUO process.
&gt; &gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; &gt;  2. Those who are on the waiting list for voting rights.
&gt; &gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; &gt;  3. Those who have been occasionally reading the messages,
&gt; &gt; &gt;     occasionally submitting a comment, but not yet sure what
&gt; &gt; &gt;     level of participation they would like to commit to.
&gt; &gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; &gt; I would suggest that:
&gt; &gt; &gt; *	Anyone in group #1 should be able to submit such a
&gt; &gt; document and/or
&gt; &gt; &gt; serve as the technical editor.
&gt; &gt; &gt; *	Anyone in group #2 could be the technical editor of
&gt; &gt; such a document,
&gt; &gt; &gt; but would have to get someone in group #1 to submit it.
&gt; &gt; &gt; *	Anyone in group #3 would have to apply for #2 status
&gt; &gt; and get someone
&gt; &gt; &gt; in #1 to submit it.
&gt; &gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; &gt; John Sowa
&gt; &gt; &gt; _______________________________________________________________
&gt; &gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; &gt; &gt;Motion:  Request for adoption by general (unanimous) consent.
&gt; &gt; &gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; &gt; &gt;Resolved: Any member of the IEEE SUO Working Group may
&gt; &gt; post a document
&gt; &gt; &gt; &gt;to the SUO web page as a "Document being worked on by this Working
&gt; &gt; &gt; &gt;Group."  The member who posts a document is presumptively
&gt; &gt; the technical
&gt; &gt; &gt; &gt;editor of the document and by posting agrees to perform
&gt; &gt; this role or
&gt; &gt; &gt; &gt;alternatively name another member who agrees to perform the role of
&gt; &gt; &gt; &gt;technical editor.  No vote will be required to post a
&gt; &gt; document or name
&gt; &gt; &gt; &gt;an editor.
&gt; &gt; &gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; &gt; &gt;The statement  "All documents posted are deemed to have
&gt; &gt; equal status and
&gt; &gt; &gt; &gt;no document has any preferred position over any other
&gt; &gt; document." will
&gt; &gt; &gt; &gt;precede the list of documents.
&gt; &gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; Regards
&gt;       Matthew
&gt; ===============================================================
&gt; Matthew West                    <A  HREF="http://www.matthew-west.org.uk/">http://www.matthew-west.org.uk/</A>
&gt;
&gt; Principal Consultant                   Shell Visiting Professor
&gt; Operations &amp; Asset Management            The Keyworth Institute
&gt; Shell Services International            The University of Leeds
&gt; <A  HREF="http://www.shellservices.com/">http://www.shellservices.com/</A>  <A  HREF="http://www.keyworth.leeds.ac.uk/">http://www.keyworth.leeds.ac.uk/</A>
&gt;
&gt; H3229, Shell Centre, London, SE1 7NA, UK.
&gt; Tel: +44 207 934 4490 Fax: 7929 Mobile: +44 7796 336538
&gt; ===============================================================

</PRE>

<!--X-Body-of-Message-End-->
<!--X-MsgBody-End-->
<!--X-Follow-Ups-->
<hr>
<!--X-Follow-Ups-End-->
<!--X-References-->
<ul><li><strong>References</strong>:
<ul>
<li><strong><a name="01915" href="msg01915.html">SUO: RE: Process for accepting &quot;working papers&quot; / &quot;expert contributions&quot; -- RE: RE: Violation of process</a></strong>
<ul><li><em>From:</em> &quot;West, Matthew MR SSI-GREA-UK&quot; &lt;Matthew.R.West@is.shell.com&gt;</li></ul></li>
</ul></li></ul>
<!--X-References-End-->
<!--X-BotPNI-->
<ul>
<LI>Prev by Date:
<STRONG><A HREF="msg01925.html">SUO: RE: RE: More than enough objections to change course</A></STRONG>
</LI>
<LI>Next by Date:
<STRONG><A HREF="msg01923.html">Re: SUO: RE: KIF syntax and semantics and a basic ontology</A></STRONG>
</LI>
<li>Prev by thread:
<strong><a href="msg01915.html">SUO: RE: Process for accepting &quot;working papers&quot; / &quot;expert contributions&quot; -- RE: RE: Violation of process</a></strong>
</li>
<li>Next by thread:
<strong><a href="msg01914.html">SUO: RE: RE: Process for accepting &quot;working papers&quot; / &quot;expert contributions&quot; -- RE: RE: Violation of process</a></strong>
</li>
<li>Index(es):
<ul>
<li><a href="mail52.html#01924"><strong>Date</strong></a></li>
<li><a href="thrd51.html#01924"><strong>Thread</strong></a></li>
</ul>
</li>
</ul>

<!--X-BotPNI-End-->
<!--X-User-Footer-->
<!--X-User-Footer-End-->
</body>
</html>
