<!-- MHonArc v2.4.8 -->
<!--X-Subject: SUO: RE: Process for accepting "working papers" / "expert contributions" &#45;&#45; RE: RE: Violation of process -->
<!--X-From-R13: "Buvyvc Xnpxfba" <cuvy.wnpxfbaNpbzchgre.bet> -->
<!--X-Date: Tue, 27 Mar 2001 09:15:42 &#45;0500 (EST) -->
<!--X-Message-Id: HEEOIOAMEIDGAOIGLDPOGEDMCGAA.phil.jackson@computer.org -->
<!--X-Content-Type: text/plain -->
<!--X-Reference: HEEOIOAMEIDGAOIGLDPOKEDLCGAA.phil.jackson@computer.org -->
<!--X-Head-End-->

<!-- /groups/802/3/efm/public/email/msg01909.html -->
<!-- /groups/???? ?SUO?                              -->

<HTML>

<HEAD>
<TITLE>SUO: RE: Process for accepting &quot;working papers&quot; / &quot;expert contributions&quot;</TITLE>
<LINK REV="made" HREF="mailto:phil.jackson@computer.org">
</HEAD>

<BODY BGCOLOR="#FFFFFF">

<!--X-Body-Begin-->
<!--X-User-Header-->
<!--X-User-Header-End-->
<!--X-TopPNI-->

<CENTER>

<TABLE CELLPADDING=3 CELLSPACING=0 BORDER=1 WIDTH="100%">
<TBODY>
<TR ALIGN="CENTER">
<TH COLSPAN=3><STRONG>Thread Links</STRONG></TH>
<TH COLSPAN=3><STRONG>Date Links</STRONG></TH>
</TR>
<TR ALIGN="CENTER">
<TD><A HREF="msg01907.html">Thread Prev</A>
</TD>
<TD><A HREF="msg01885.html">Thread Next</A>
</TD>
<TD><A HREF="thrd51.html#01909">Thread Index</A></Td>
<TD><A HREF="msg01910.html">Date Prev</A></TD>
<TD><A HREF="msg01908.html">Date Next</A>
</TD>
<TD><A HREF="mail52.html#01909">Date Index</A></TD>
</TR>
</TBODY>
</TABLE>
</CENTER>


<!--X-TopPNI-End-->
<!--X-MsgBody-->
<!--X-Subject-Header-Begin-->
<h1>SUO: RE: Process for accepting &quot;working papers&quot; / &quot;expert contributions&quot; -- RE: RE: Violation of process</h1>
<hr>
<!--X-Subject-Header-End-->
<!--X-Head-of-Message-->
<UL>
<LI><em>To</em>: &quot;'Standard-Upper-Ontology '&quot; &lt;<A HREF="mailto:standard-upper-ontology@ieee.org">standard-upper-ontology@ieee.org</A>&gt;</LI>
<LI><em>Subject</em>: SUO: RE: Process for accepting &quot;working papers&quot; / &quot;expert contributions&quot; -- RE: RE: Violation of process</LI>
<LI><em>From</em>: &quot;Philip Jackson&quot; &lt;<A HREF="mailto:phil.jackson@computer.org">phil.jackson@computer.org</A>&gt;</LI>
<LI><em>Date</em>: Tue, 27 Mar 2001 08:47:08 -0500</LI>
<LI><em>Importance</em>: Normal</LI>
<LI><em>In-Reply-To</em>: &lt;<A HREF="msg01907.html">HEEOIOAMEIDGAOIGLDPOKEDLCGAA.phil.jackson@computer.org</A>&gt;</LI>
<LI><em>Reply-To</em>: &quot;Philip Jackson&quot; &lt;<A HREF="mailto:phil.jackson@computer.org">phil.jackson@computer.org</A>&gt;</LI>
<LI><em>Sender</em>: <A HREF="mailto:owner-standard-upper-ontology@ieee.org">owner-standard-upper-ontology@ieee.org</A></LI>
</UL>
<!--X-Head-of-Message-End-->
<!--X-Head-Body-Sep-Begin-->
<hr>
<!--X-Head-Body-Sep-End-->
<!--X-Body-of-Message-->
<PRE>

Separately both Matthew West and Graham Horn have presented arguments
against having any formal working documents at this time, even if no
documents are designated as preeminent. Graham has also suggested that
voting for working documents at this time would be too time-consuming and/or
divisive.

So it seems we have a tangle of issues, about which there is some
substantial concern and potential disagreement among multiple voting
members. This tangle of issues needs to be separated and resolved. One way
to resolve these issues might be to have a vote in which the ballot consists
of the following questions, to determine how best to proceed:

1) Should we have any formally designated working documents at all at this
point? (yes, no, abstain)

2) Should any documents be designated as preeminent over others at this
point? (yes, no, abstain)

3) If we have working documents, what procedure should be followed to
designate something as a working document (Choose one):

A) A vote requiring a plurality of voting members in favor of the document?

B) Any voting member may submit a document and it is automatically
recognized as a working document?

C) TBD.

I would like to open the question of whether we should have such a vote for
discussion by all concerned. Maybe this is something that is already clearly
established in the procedures for IEEE working groups? If not, we may need
to establish it for SUO...

Phil Jackson
-------------------------------------------------------------------
"Tell us how the laws of nature came about, and we may distinguish in some
measure between laws that might and laws that could not have resulted from
such a process of development." - Peirce, CP3:408.
-------------------------------------------------------------------
Standard Disclaimers. www.philjackson.prohosting.com



&gt; -----Original Message-----
&gt; From: Philip Jackson [<A  HREF="mailto:phil.jackson@computer.org">mailto:phil.jackson@computer.org</A>]
&gt; Sent: Tuesday, March 27, 2001 8:22 AM
&gt; To: 'Standard-Upper-Ontology '
&gt; Subject: Process for accepting "working papers" / "expert contributions"
&gt; -- RE: RE: Violation of process
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; It seems to me that the proposal below, with the amendments
&gt; suggested by John Sowa, has several advantages:
&gt;
&gt; 1) It goes on the record making it clear that SUO is open to
&gt; actively considering multiple "working documents" / "expert
&gt; contributions", etc., at this time. As Chris Partridge noted in
&gt; his recent post, this is something that Jim Schoening had
&gt; previously written, but I think it is good to get this issue
&gt; clearly resolved and established, once and for all.
&gt;
&gt; 2) It also provides a way in which a working document can have
&gt; some degree of formal acknowledgement and status as being under
&gt; consideration by SUO, without having precedence over other
&gt; working documents. This is different from what it seemed that Bob
&gt; Spillers had previously requested, that there be no "formality"
&gt; whatsoever attached to the status of something being a working
&gt; document. Yet some formality without preeminence may be acceptable to all.
&gt;
&gt; The only potential disadvantages and/or issues I can see are the
&gt; following:
&gt;
&gt; A) Does SUO need some kind of "filter" to ensure that not just
&gt; any document can be submitted and automatically accepted as a
&gt; working document / expert contribution, and thereby gain the
&gt; patina of preliminary status with IEEE SUO? For example, suppose
&gt; there is a "crank" who happens to be reading the postings of this
&gt; group, who would like to submit a document that virtually
&gt; everyone else would say is outlandish and not worth considering
&gt; as a working paper? Even under the additional terms proposed
&gt; below, if Mr. Crank waits six months and becomes a voting member,
&gt; then he can submit a document and tell the world it has been
&gt; accepted as a working document by IEEE. One remedy for this
&gt; (hopefully unlikely)potential problem is to require that anything
&gt; submitted for status as a working document must receive at least
&gt; a plurality of votes in favor of acceptance, by voting members of SUO.
&gt;
&gt; B) Separately, Matthew West has raised the question whether
&gt; anything needs to be, or merits being, a formal working document
&gt; at this point. It seems to me that if the Merged Ontology has the
&gt; status of a Working Document, yet the majority of the group
&gt; either abstained or voted against it, then this indicates that
&gt; the Merged Ontology has sufficient limitations that it would be a
&gt; good idea at this point to try to get some other contenders
&gt; recognized as having at least the same, preliminary status, e.g.
&gt; EPISTLE, OpenCyc, etc. In saying this I do not prejudge the
&gt; Merged Ontology's chances of eventually being selected as the
&gt; final SUO standard.
&gt;
&gt; C) We may have multiple working documents, but their relation to
&gt; the final SUO standard is completely open, as it should be at
&gt; this point. The final standard may be one of these working
&gt; documents, chosen as best by the group. Or it may be a "merger"
&gt; of multiple working documents. Or conceivably it might be a
&gt; "metaontology" describing other ontologies. Or it might be some
&gt; framework for translating between ontologies, or some kind of
&gt; "library of ontologies" or "assembly of ontologies", with
&gt; references to member ontologies, etc. Whatever the final standard
&gt; is, it seems that at some point it would have to become a working
&gt; document itself.
&gt;
&gt; Phil Jackson
&gt; -------------------------------------------------------------------
&gt; "Thus, space, as far as we can see, has three dimensions; but are
&gt; we quite sure that the corpuscles into which atoms are now minced
&gt; have not room enough to wiggle a little in a fourth? Is physical
&gt; space hyperbolic, that is, infinite and limited, or is it
&gt; elliptic, that is, finite and unlimited? Only the exactest
&gt; measurements upon the stars can decide. Yet even with them the
&gt; question cannot be answered without recourse to philosophy." -
&gt; Peirce, CP2:249.
&gt; -------------------------------------------------------------------
&gt; Standard Disclaimers. www.philjackson.prohosting.com
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; &gt; -----Original Message-----
&gt; &gt; From: owner-standard-upper-ontology@ieee.org
&gt; &gt; [<A  HREF="mailto:owner-standard-upper-ontology@ieee.org]On">mailto:owner-standard-upper-ontology@ieee.org]On</A> Behalf Of Horn, Graham
&gt; &gt; Sent: Monday, March 26, 2001 11:12 PM
&gt; &gt; To: 'sowa@bestweb.net'; Robert Grayson Spillers; Jon Awbrey; Chris
&gt; &gt; Partridge; 'Standard-Upper-Ontology '
&gt; &gt; Subject: SUO: RE: Violation of process
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; Bob,
&gt; &gt; 	.	Having looked at the website, and seem the pre-eminent
&gt; &gt; status given a "Document being worked on by this Working Group",
&gt; &gt; I see valid
&gt; &gt; reasons for your concern.
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; 	.	Naturally, many of us want to encourage Ian Niles, Matthew
&gt; &gt; West and Robert Kent, as well as the prospect of somehow
&gt; including the Cyc
&gt; &gt; ontology. However, that doesn't mean any one of them will
&gt; necessarily turn
&gt; &gt; out to be either the core, or even necessarily part, of the
&gt; final product
&gt; &gt; that turns out to have the robust structure we need. I suggest,
&gt; &gt; for the best
&gt; &gt; product to result from this project, we have to maximise the
&gt; &gt; opportunity for
&gt; &gt; highest quality, robust and generic ontology to emerge. This
&gt; requires due
&gt; &gt; and balanced consideration be given all candidates, and so
&gt; pre-eminence is
&gt; &gt; not appropriate.
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; 	.	I have always wondered why there is a need to have a
&gt; &gt; pre-eminent document at such an early stage. NONE of us can possibly
&gt; &gt; adjudicate, at this stage, which candidate structure will finish
&gt; &gt; up with the
&gt; &gt; necessary soundness to constitute an appropriate final product.
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; 	.	As a result I now support your move to remove the formal
&gt; &gt; pre-eminent status of any particular product(s).
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; 	.	Furthermore, I think it is generally agreed that the ballot
&gt; &gt; caused a lot of unnecessary acrimony, and was hardly decisive in its
&gt; &gt; outcome. I think many feel it shouldn't have occurred at such an
&gt; &gt; early stage
&gt; &gt; (even Jim acknowledged that). Up to now I was happy to live with
&gt; &gt; it, but now
&gt; &gt; I see the risk of the current outcome swaying the long-term
&gt; prospects for
&gt; &gt; the project settling on the best final product.
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; 	.	For these reasons, I support your call for a ballot to
&gt; &gt; resolve the contentious situation that evidently exists.
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; 	.	Personally, I would be happy that such a ballot require a
&gt; &gt; 2/3rds majority, since I feel that demonstrates an adequately
&gt; substantial
&gt; &gt; direction of opinion.
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; 	.	I also support the sort of careful additional considerations
&gt; &gt; John has suggested for the motion below. I feel this is an
&gt; opportunity to
&gt; &gt; set up a sound ontology candidacy structure, and such
&gt; additional controls
&gt; &gt; can assist that aim.
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; Cheers   				Graham Horn
&gt; &gt; National Data Standards Unit
&gt; &gt; Australian Institute of Health and Welfare
&gt; &gt; ================================================
&gt; &gt; Phone:      	+61.2.6244.1094
&gt; &gt; Fax:          	+61.2.6244.1199
&gt; &gt; E­mail:    	Graham.Horn@aihw.gov.au &lt;<A  HREF="mailto:graham.horn@aihw.gov.au">mailto:graham.horn@aihw.gov.au</A>&gt;
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; -----Original Message-----
&gt; &gt; From:	John F. Sowa [<A  HREF="mailto:sowa@bestweb.net">mailto:sowa@bestweb.net</A>]
&gt; &gt; Sent:	Tuesday, March 27, 2001 12:24 PM
&gt; &gt; To:	Robert Grayson Spillers; John F. Sowa; Jon Awbrey; Chris Partridge;
&gt; &gt; Horn, Graham; 'Standard-Upper-Ontology '
&gt; &gt; Subject:	Re: Violation of process
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; Bob,
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; I like that proposal, and I would vote for it.  But I would suggest two
&gt; &gt; clarifications:  (1) decide on some name for the submissions, such as
&gt; &gt; "working paper" or "expert contribution"; and (2) clarify the status of
&gt; &gt; "member".  Right now, there are three categories of people who have been
&gt; &gt; participating:
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt;  1. People who have attained voting rights in the SUO process.
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt;  2. Those who are on the waiting list for voting rights.
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt;  3. Those who have been occasionally reading the messages,
&gt; &gt;     occasionally submitting a comment, but not yet sure what
&gt; &gt;     level of participation they would like to commit to.
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; I would suggest that:
&gt; &gt; *	Anyone in group #1 should be able to submit such a document and/or
&gt; &gt; serve as the technical editor.
&gt; &gt; *	Anyone in group #2 could be the technical editor of such a document,
&gt; &gt; but would have to get someone in group #1 to submit it.
&gt; &gt; *	Anyone in group #3 would have to apply for #2 status and get someone
&gt; &gt; in #1 to submit it.
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; John Sowa
&gt; &gt; _______________________________________________________________
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; &gt;Motion:  Request for adoption by general (unanimous) consent.
&gt; &gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; &gt;Resolved: Any member of the IEEE SUO Working Group may post a document
&gt; &gt; &gt;to the SUO web page as a "Document being worked on by this Working
&gt; &gt; &gt;Group."  The member who posts a document is presumptively the technical
&gt; &gt; &gt;editor of the document and by posting agrees to perform this role or
&gt; &gt; &gt;alternatively name another member who agrees to perform the role of
&gt; &gt; &gt;technical editor.  No vote will be required to post a document or name
&gt; &gt; &gt;an editor.
&gt; &gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; &gt;The statement  "All documents posted are deemed to have equal
&gt; status and
&gt; &gt; &gt;no document has any preferred position over any other document." will
&gt; &gt; &gt;precede the list of documents.

</PRE>

<!--X-Body-of-Message-End-->
<!--X-MsgBody-End-->
<!--X-Follow-Ups-->
<hr>
<!--X-Follow-Ups-End-->
<!--X-References-->
<ul><li><strong>References</strong>:
<ul>
<li><strong><a name="01907" href="msg01907.html">SUO: Process for accepting &quot;working papers&quot; / &quot;expert contributions&quot; -- RE: RE: Violation of process</a></strong>
<ul><li><em>From:</em> &quot;Philip Jackson&quot; &lt;phil.jackson@computer.org&gt;</li></ul></li>
</ul></li></ul>
<!--X-References-End-->
<!--X-BotPNI-->
<ul>
<LI>Prev by Date:
<STRONG><A HREF="msg01910.html">SUO: 'n'</A></STRONG>
</LI>
<LI>Next by Date:
<STRONG><A HREF="msg01908.html">SUO: More than enough objections to change course</A></STRONG>
</LI>
<li>Prev by thread:
<strong><a href="msg01907.html">SUO: Process for accepting &quot;working papers&quot; / &quot;expert contributions&quot; -- RE: RE: Violation of process</a></strong>
</li>
<li>Next by thread:
<strong><a href="msg01885.html">SUO: RE: Violation of process</a></strong>
</li>
<li>Index(es):
<ul>
<li><a href="mail52.html#01909"><strong>Date</strong></a></li>
<li><a href="thrd51.html#01909"><strong>Thread</strong></a></li>
</ul>
</li>
</ul>

<!--X-BotPNI-End-->
<!--X-User-Footer-->
<!--X-User-Footer-End-->
</body>
</html>
